WikiTeXer is created to allow writing simple Mediawiki type input and
generating HTML or LaTeX. The reasoning is that TeX is great for output, but
not so friendly for users. Personally I needed a tool that would:

1. Allow a mixture of Wiki language and LaTeX input
2. Generate HTML -> Word/OpenOffice
3. Generate LaTeX -> PS -> PDF

There is a plethora of tools that comes some way towards achieving this goal.
However, there are downsides for each. I did not want a Wiki based HTML server
- just the command line. The 'deplate' program does a lot of things right,
unfortunately the architecture was too complex to start hacking it and the
author made a number of design choices I did not care about.

Ultimately the architecture should be simple and allow contained HTML for HTML
output and contained LaTeX for LaTeX output. Much of the complexity of existing
systems is that they need to cater to either pure LaTeX (like latex2html), or
HTML (many wysiwyg examples), or XML (docbook, XML/FO). Where the latter is
about rendering, and less about usage

LaTeX itself is a great system for publishing (less so for interactive systems,
but I don't care about those too much either). My main criticism is that LaTeX
(or TeX) is showing its age in terms of syntax and verbosity. For typing I want
something even less in the way, but to generate powerful output like LaTeX does.

What would be nice is to have a LaTeX environment where one could replace some
of the common markup with Wiki-style markup. Also macro's would be nice in a
modern language, say Ruby.  Finally we need great output. Converting figures
between LaTeX and HTML can be done transparently.  However, tables are a
difficult problem. My choice is to support native LaTeX tables and native HTML
tables - as I tend to generate them anyway. Maybe later a external converter
can be used to handle translation automatically as a plugin.

Darn, I have another project on my hands.

Pjotr Prins.

